#### 1. **Compile-Time Polymorphism**

- Achieved through **Method Overloading** : Method overloading is a feature in Java that allows a class to have more than one method with the same name, provided their parameter lists are different.
```java
    class Calculator { 
     int add(int a, int b) { 
     return a + b; 
     }     
     double add(double a, double b) {
      return a + b;
     } 
}
```
    

---

#### 2. **Runtime Polymorphism**

- Achieved through **Method Overriding**. Method overriding allows a **subclass** to provide a specific implementation for a method already defined in its **superclass**. 
- When the overridden method is called using a **parent reference variable** that refers to a **child object**, the method in the **child class** is invoked

```java
class A { 
	void display() { 
	System.out.println("A"); 
	} 
} 
class B extends A { 
	@Override 
	void display() {
	System.out.println("B"); 
	}
 } 
 
 A obj = new B(); 
 obj.display(); // Outputs "B".`
    

```
---

#### 3. **Virtual Methods and Dynamic Method Dispatch**

- **Virtual Methods**: Non-static methods resolved at runtime using the actual object type.
- **Dynamic Method Dispatch**: 
	- Also called **runtime polymorphism**.
- In summary:
	- **Virtual methods** are resolved at runtime.
	- **Dynamic method dispatch** is the mechanism that makes it happen!
    

---

#### 4. **Overriding Rules and Best Practices**

- **Rules**:
    - The method must have the same signature (name and parameters).
    - Access level cannot be more restrictive.
    - Cannot override `final`, `static`, or `private` methods.
- **Best Practices**:
    - Use `@Override` annotation for clarity.
    - Ensure compatibility with the superclass method contract.

---

#### 6. **Overriding `Static`, `Final` and `Private` Methods**
### Static Methods

- **Static methods** belong to the class, not the instance.
- They **cannot be overridden** but are **hidden** in the subclass.
- The method called is determined by the **reference type** (the class type), not the object type.

### Final Methods

- **Final methods** cannot be overridden in subclasses.
- Once marked as `final`, the method's implementation is **fixed** and cannot be changed.

### Private Methods
- **Private methods** cannot be overridden because they are not accessible to subclasses.

# Why we need polymorphism ?
Polymorphism allows one function or method to work with different types of objects. It makes code more flexible, reusable, and easier to maintain by reducing redundancy and promoting a modular design.